
Introduction to Big Data
What is Data?
The quantities, characters, or symbols on which operations are performed by a computer, 
which may be stored and transmitted in the form of electrical signals and recorded on 
magnetic, optical, or mechanical recording media.
What is Big Data?
Big Data is also data but with a huge size. Big Data is a term used to describe a 
collection of data that is huge in volume and yet growing exponentially with time. In 
short such data is so large and complex that none of the traditional data management 
tools are able to store it or process it efficiently.
“Extremely large data sets that may be analyzed computationally to reveal patterns , 
trends and association, especially relating to human behavior and interaction are 
known as Big Data.”


Examples Of Big Data
Following are some the examples of Big Data-
The New York Stock Exchange generates about one terabyte of new trade data per day.

Social Media
The statistic shows that 500+terabytes of new data get ingested into the databases of social 
media site Facebook, every day. This data is mainly generated in terms of photo and video 
uploads, message exchanges, putting comments etc.
A single Jet engine can generate 10+terabytes of data in 30 minutes of flight time. With many 
thousand flights per day, generation of data reaches up to many Petabytes.
Twitter

Name
Equal To
Size(In Bytes)
Bit
1 bit
1/8
Nibble
4 bits
1/2 (rare)
Byte
8 bits
1
Kilobyte
1024 bytes
1024
Megabyte
1, 024kilobytes
1, 048, 576
Gigabyte
1, 024 megabytes
1, 073, 741, 824
Terrabyte
1, 024 gigabytes
1, 099, 511, 627, 776
Petabyte
1, 024 terrabytes
1, 125, 899, 906, 842, 624
Exabyte
1, 024 petabytes
1, 152, 921, 504, 606, 846, 976
Zettabyte
1, 024 exabytes
1, 180, 591, 620, 717, 411, 303, 424
Yottabyte
1, 024 zettabytes
1, 208, 925, 819, 614, 629, 174, 706, 176
Tabular Representation of various Memory Sizes

Characteristics Of Big Data
•
The following are known as “Big Data Characteristics”.
1. Volume
2. Velocity
3. Variety
4. Veracity
1. Volume:
Volume means “How much Data is generated”. Now-a-days, 
Organizations or Human Beings or Systems are generating or getting 
very vast amount of Data say TB(Tera Bytes) to PB(Peta Bytes) to Exa
Byte(EB) and more.

2. Velocity:
Velocity means “How fast produce Data”. Now-a-days, Organizations or 
Human Beings or Systems are generating huge amounts of Data at very 
fast rate.
3. Variety:
Variety means “Different forms of Data”. Now-a-days, Organizations or 
Human Beings or Systems are generating very huge amount of data at very fast 
rate in different formats. We will discuss in details about different formats of 
Data soon.

4. Veracity
Veracity means “The Quality or Correctness or Accuracy of Captured Data”. 
Out of 4Vs, it is most important V for any Big Data Solutions. Because without 
Correct Information or Data, there is no use of storing large amount of data at 
fast rate and different formats. That data should give correct business value.

Types of Digital Data
1. Structured
2. Unstructured
3. Semi-structured
Structured

Any data that can be stored, accessed and processed in the form of fixed format is 
termed as a 'structured' data. 

Over the period of time, talent in computer science has achieved greater success in 
developing techniques for working with such kind of data (where the format is well 
known in advance) and also deriving value out of it.

However, nowadays, we are foreseeing issues when a size of such data grows to a huge 
extent, typical sizes are being in the range of multiple zettabytes.
Do you know? 1021 bytes equal to 1 zettabyte or one billion terabytes forms a zettabyte.
Looking at these figures one can easily understand why the name Big Data is 
given and imagine the challenges involved in its storage and processing.

Do you know? Data stored in a relational database management system is one 
example of a 'structured' data.
• Examples Of Structured Data
An 'Employee' table in a database is an example of Structured Data
Employee_ID
Employee_Name
Gender
Department
Salary_In_lacs
2365
Rajesh Kulkarni
Male
Finance
650000
3398
Pratibha Joshi
Female
Admin
650000
7465
Shushil Roy
Male
Admin
500000
7500
Shubhojit Das
Male
Finance
500000
7699
Priya Sane
Female
Finance
550000

Unstructured

Any data with unknown form or the structure is classified as unstructured data.

In addition to the size being huge, un-structured data poses multiple challenges in terms 
of its processing for deriving value out of it.

A typical example of unstructured data is a heterogeneous data source containing a 
combination of simple text files, images, videos etc. 

Now day organizations have wealth of data available with them but unfortunately, they 
don't know how to derive value out of it since this data is in its raw form or unstructured 
format.
• Examples Of Un-structured Data
The output returned by 'Google Search'

Semi-structured

Semi-structured data can contain both the forms of data. 

We can see semi-structured data as a structured in form but it is actually not defined 
with e.g. a table definition in relational DBMS.

Example of semi-structured data is a data represented in an XML file.
Examples Of Semi-structured Data
Personal data stored in an XML file-
<rec><name>Prashant Rao</name><sex>Male</sex><age>35</age></rec>
<rec><name>Seema R.</name><sex>Female</sex><age>41</age></rec>
<rec><name>Satish Mane</name><sex>Male</sex><age>29</age></rec>
<rec><name>Subrato Roy</name><sex>Male</sex><age>26</age></rec>
<rec><name>Jeremiah J.</name><sex>Male</sex><age>35</age></rec>

Big Data Analytics
Big Data Analytics: 

Big Data analytics is the process of collecting, organizing and analyzing 
large sets of data (called Big Data) to discover patterns and other useful 
information.

Big Data analytics can help organizations to better understand the 
information contained within the data and will also help identify the data 
that is most important to the business and future business decisions. 
Analysts working with Big Data typically want the knowledge that comes 
from analyzing the data.

High-Performance Analytics Required: 

To analyze such a large volume of data, Big Data analytics is typically 
performed using specialized software tools and applications for predictive 
analytics, data mining, text mining, forecasting and data optimization. 

Collectively these processes are separate but highly integrated functions of 
high-performance analytics.

Using Big Data tools and software enables an organization to process extremely 
large volumes of data that a business has collected to determine which data is 
relevant and can be analyzed to drive better business decisions in the future.

The Challenges:

For most organizations, Big Data analysis is a challenge. Consider the sheer 
volume of data and the different formats of the  
data(both structured and unstructured data) that is collected across the entire 
organization and the many different ways different types of data can be 
combined, contrasted and analyzed to find patterns and other useful business 
information.

The first challenge is in breaking down data silos to access all data an 
organization stores in different places and often in different systems. 

A second challenge is in creating platforms that can pull in unstructured data as 
easily as structured data. 

This massive volume of data is typically so large that it's difficult to process 
using traditional database and software methods.

How Big Data Analytics is Used Today:

As the technology that helps an organization to break down data silos and analyze 
data improves, business can be transformed in all sorts of ways. 

Today's advances in analyzing big data allow researchers to decode human DNA in 
minutes, predict where terrorists plan to attack, determine which gene is mostly likely 
to be responsible for certain diseases and, of course, which ads you are most likely to 
respond to on Facebook.

Another example comes from one of the biggest mobile carriers in the world.

France's Orange launched its Data for Development project by releasing subscriber 
data for customers in the Ivory Coast.

The 2.5 billion records, which were made anonymous, included details on calls and 
text messages exchanged between 5 million users.

Researchers accessed the data and sent Orange proposals for how the data could serve 
as the foundation for development projects to improve public health and safety.

Proposed projects included one that showed how to improve public safety by tracking 
cell phone data to map where people went after emergencies; another showed how to 
use cellular data for disease containment. (source)

The Benefits of Big Data Analytics:

Enterprises are increasingly looking to find actionable insights into their 
data. Many big data projects originate from the need to answer specific 
business questions. With the right big data analytics platforms in place, an 
enterprise can boost sales, increase efficiency, and improve operations, 
customer service and risk management.

Webopedia parent company, QuinStreet, surveyed 540 enterprise decision-
makers involved in big data purchases to learn which business areas 
companies plan to use Big Data analytics to improve operations. About half 
of all respondents said they were applying big data analytics to improve 
customer retention, help with product development and gain a competitive 
advantage.

Notably, the business area getting the most attention relates to increasing 
efficiency and optimizing operations. Specifically, 62 percent of respondents 
said that they use big data analytics to improve speed and reduce complexity.

Application of Big Data 

Here is the list of top Big Data applications in today’s world:
•
Big Data in Healthcare
•
Big Data in Education
•
Big Data in E-commerce
•
Big Data in Media and Entertainment
•
Big Data in Finance
•
Big Data in Travel Industry
•
Big Data in Telecom
•
Big Data in Automobile

Let’s discuss the applications of Big Data in detail.
1. Big Data in Retail

The retail industry is the one that faces the most fierce competition of all. Retailers 
constantly hunt for ways that will give them a competitive edge over others. 
Customers are the real king sounds legit for the retail industry in particular.

For retailers to thrive in this competitive world, they need to understand their 
customers in a better way. If they are aware of their customers’ needs and how to 
fulfill those needs in the best possible way, then they know everything.

Check how Big Data act as a weapon for retailers to connect with their customers
– Big Data in Retail.

Through advanced analysis of their customer’s data, retailers are now able to 
understand them from every angle possible. They gather this data from various 
sources such as social media, loyalty programs, etc.


Even a minute detail about any customer has now become significant for them. They are 
now closer to their customers than they have ever been. This empowers them to provide 
customers with more personalized services and predict their demands in advance.

This helps them in building a loyal customer base. Some of the biggest names in the retail 
world like Walmart, Sears and Holdings, Costco, Walgreens, and many more now have Big 
Data as an integral part of their organizations.

A study by the National Retail Federation estimated that sales in November and December 
are responsible for as much as 30% of retail annual sales.

2. Big Data in Healthcare

Big Data and healthcare are an ideal match. It complements the healthcare industry better 
than anything ever will. The amount of data the healthcare industry has to deal with is 
unimaginable.
Gone are the days when healthcare practitioners were incapable of harnessing this data. 
From finding a cure to cancer to detecting Ebola and much more, Big Data has got it all 
under its belt and researchers have seen some life-saving outcomes through it.

Big Data and analytics have given them the license to build more personalized 
medications. Data analysts are harnessing this data to develop more and more effective 
treatments. Identifying unusual patterns of certain medicines to discover ways for 
developing more economical solutions is a common practice these days.


Explore how Big Data helps to speed up the treatment process – Big Data in 
Healthcare.

Smart wearables have gradually gained popularity and are the latest trend among 
people of all age groups. This generates massive amounts of real-time data in the 
form of alerts which helps in saving the lives of the people.

3. Big Data in Education

When you ask people about the use of the data that an educational institute gathers, the 
majority of the people will have the same answer that the institute or the student might 
need it for future references.

Even you had the same perception about this data, didn’t you? But the fact is, this data 
holds enormous importance. Big Data is the key to shaping the future of the people and 
has the power to transform the education system for better.

Some of the top universities are using Big Data as a tool to renovate their academic 
curriculum. Additionally, universities can even track the dropout rates of the students 
and are taking the required measures to reduce this rate as much as possible.

4. Big Data in E-commerce

One of the greatest revolutions this generation has seen is that of E-commerce. It is now part 
and parcel of our routine life. Whenever we need to buy something, the first thought that 
provokes our mind is E-commerce. And not your surprise, Big Data has been the face of it.

Some of the biggest E-commerce companies of the world like Amazon, Flipkart, Alibaba, and 
many more are now bound to Big Data and analytics is itself an evidence of the level of 
popularity Big Data has gained in recent times.

Big Data is now as important as anyone else in these organizations. Amazon, the biggest E-
commerce firm in the world and one of the pioneers of Big Data and analytics, has Big Data as 
the backbone of its system. Flipkart, the biggest E-commerce firm in India, has one of the most 
robust data platforms in the country.

See how Flipkart used Big Data to have one of the most robust data platforms.

Big Data’s recommendation engine is one of the most amazing applications the Big Data world 
has ever witnessed. It furnishes the companies with a 360-degree view of its customers.

Companies then suggest customers accordingly. Customers now experience more personalized 
services than they have ever had. Big Data has completely redefined people’s online shopping 
experiences.

5. Big Data in Media and Entertainment

Media and Entertainment industry is all about art and employing Big Data in it is a 
sheer piece of art. Art and science are often considered to be the two completely 
contrasting domains but when employed together, they do make a deadly duo and Big 
Data’s endeavors in the media industry are a perfect example of it.

Viewers these days need content according to their choices only. Content that is 
relatively new to what they saw the previous time. Earlier the companies 
broadcasted the Ads randomly without any kind of analysis.

But after the advent of Big Data analytics in the industry, companies now are 
aware of the kind of Ads that attracts a customer and the most appropriate time to 
broadcast it for seeking maximum attention.

Customers are now the real heroes of the Media and entertainment industry -
courtesy to Big Data and Analytics.

6. Big Data in Finance

The functioning of any financial organization depends heavily on its data and to safeguard that 
data is one of the toughest challenges any financial firm faces. Data has been the second most 
important commodity for them after money.

Even before Big Data gained popularity, the finance industry was already conquering the 
technical field. In addition to it, financial firms were among the earliest adopters of Big Data 
and Analytics.

Digital banking and payments are two of the most trending buzzwords around and Big data 
has been at the heart of it. Big Data is bossing the key areas of financial firms such as fraud 
detection, risk analysis, algorithmic trading, and customer contentment.

This has brought much-needed fluency in their systems. They are now empowered to focus 
more on providing better services to their customers rather than focussing on security issues. 
Big Data has now enhanced the financial system with answers to its hardest of the challenges.

7. Big Data in Travel Industry

While Big Data is spreading like wildfire and various industries have been cooking its food 
with it, the travel industry was a bit late to realize its worth. Better late than never though. 
Having a stress-free traveling experience is still like a daydream for many.

And now Big Data’s arrival is like a ray of hope, that will mark the departure of all the 
hindrances in our smooth traveling experience.
See how Big Data is revolutionizing the travel & tourism sector.

Through Big Data and analytics, travel companies are now able to offer more 
customized traveling experience. They are now able to understand their customer’s 
requirements in a much-enhanced way.

From providing them with the best offers to be able to make suggestions in real-time, 
Big Data is certainly a perfect guide for any traveler. Big Data is gradually taking the 
window seat in the travel industry.

8. Big Data in Telecom

The telecom industry is the soul of every digital revolution that takes place around the world. 
With the ever-increasing popularity of smartphones, it has flooded the telecom industry with 
massive amounts of data.

And this data is like a goldmine, telecom companies just need to know how to dig it properly. 
Through Big Data and analytics, companies are able to provide the customers with smooth 
connectivity, thus eradicating all the network barriers that the customers have to deal with.
Companies now with the help of Big Data and analytics can track the areas with the lowest as 
well as the highest network traffics and thus doing the needful to ensure hassle-free network 
connectivity.
Big Data alike other industries have helped the telecom industry to understand its customers 
pretty well. 
Telecom industries now provide customers with offers as customized as possible.

Big Data has been behind the data revolution we are currently experiencing.

9. Big Data in Automobile

“A business like an automobile, has to be driven, in order to get results.” B.C. Forbes

And Big Data has now taken complete control of the automobile industry and is driving it 
smoothly. Big Data is driving the automobile industry towards some unbelievable and never 
before results.

The automobile industry is on a roll and Big Data is its wheels or I must say Big Data has given 
wings to it. Big Data has helped the automobile industry achieve things that were beyond our 
imaginations

From analyzing the trends to understanding the supply chain management, from taking care 
of its customers to turning our wildest dream of connected cars a reality, Big Data is well 
and truly driving the automobile industry crazy.

