What is Big Data? 
Enter 


  
 
 
 
                                                  
  
 
  
Table of Contents 
Defntion of Big Data  
04 
The History of Big Data            
  08 
Big Data Use Cases                                                                      10 
How Big Data Works
                                                             13 
Big Data Best Practices  
15 
Put Big Data to Work  
18 

Defnition of 
Big Data 
4 

5 
What exactly is big data? 
To put it simply: big data is larger, more 
complex data sets, especially from new data 
sources. These data sets are so voluminous that 
traditional data processing software just can’t 
manage them. But these massive volumes of 
data can be used to address business problems 
you wouldn’t have been able to tackle before. 
To really understand big data, it’s helpful to have 
some historical background. Here’s Gartner’s 
defnition, circa 2001(which is still the go-to 
defnition): 
“Big data is data that contains greater variety 
arriving in increasing volumes and with ever 
higher velocity. This is known as the three Vs.” 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE THREE VS OF BIG DATA 
• Volume.The amount of data matters. With 
big data, you’ll have to process high volumes 
of low-density, unstructured data. This can be 
data of unknown value, such as Twitter data 
feeds, clickstreams on a webpage or a mobile 
app, or sensor-enabled equipment. For some 
organizations, this might be tens of 
terabytes of data. For others, it may be 
hundreds of petabytes. 
Velocity. Velocity is the fast rate at which data 
is received and (perhaps) acted on. Normally, 
the highest velocity of data streams directly into 
memory versus being written to disk.  Some 
internet-enabled smart products operate in real 
time or near real time and will require 
real-time evaluation and action. 
• Variety. In today’s big data world, data 
comes in new unstructured data types. 
Unstructured and semi-structured data types, 
such as text, audio, and video require addition 
preprocessing to derive meaning and 
support metadata. 
6 
Velocity 
Volume
 
Variety
 
1 
2 
3 
BIG DATA 

 
 
THE VALUE—AND TRUTH—OF 
BIG DATA 
Since 2001, two more Vs have become apparent: 
value and veracity. Data has intrinsic value. But 
it’s of no use until that value is discovered. 
Equally important: How truthful is your data—and 
how much can you rely on it? 
Today, big data has become capital. Think of 
some of the world’s biggest tech companies. A 
large part of the value they offer comes from 
their data, which they’re constantly analyzing to 
produce more effciency and develop 
new products. 
Recent technological breakthroughs have 
exponentially reduced the cost of data storage 
and compute, making it easier and less expensive 
to store more data than ever before. With an 
increased volume of big data now cheaper and 
more accessible, you can make more accurate 
and precise business decisions. 
Finding value in big data isn’t only about 
analyzing it (which is a whole other beneft). 
It’s an entire discovery process that requires 
insightful analysts, business users, and 
executives who ask the right questions, recognize 
patterns, make informed assumptions, and 
predict behavior. 
But how did we get here? 
7 

The History 
of Big Data 
8 

 
 
 
 
 
Around 2005, people began to realize just how 
much data users generated through Facebook, 
YouTube, and other online services. Hadoop (an 
open-source framework created specifcally to 
store and analyze big data sets) was developed 
that same year. NoSQL also began to gain 
popularity during this time. 
The development of open-source frameworks, 
such as Hadoop (and more recently, Spark) was 
essential for the growth of big data because they 
make big data easier to work with and cheaper to 
store. In the years since then, the volume of big 
data has skyrocketed. Users are still generating 
huge amounts of data—but it’s not just humans. 
With the advent of Internet of Things (IoT) , more 
objects and devices are connected to the internet, 
gathering data on customer usage patterns and 
product performance. The emergence of machine 
learning has produced still more data. 
While big data has come far, its popularity is only 
just beginning. Cloud computing has expanded 
big data possibilities even further. 
The cloud offers a truly elastic scalability, where 
developers can just spin up ad hoc clusters to 
test around a subset of data. It’s an exciting time 
to see what’s going to happen next. 
BENEFITS OF BIG DATA AND 
DATA ANALYTICS 
THE VALUE OF BIG DATA COMES IS TWOFOLD: 
1. Big data makes it possible for you to gain 
more complete answers because you have 
more information 
2. More complete answers means more 
confdence in the data–which means 
a completely different approach to 
tackling problems 
9 

 
Big Data 
Use Cases 
10 

         
        
 
       
       
 
          
This new knowledge enables you to handle use 
cases that you haven’t been able to fully delve 
into before. Here are just a few.  (More use cases 
are on our solutions page): 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 
Companies like Netfix and Procter & Gamble 
use big data to anticipate customer demand. 
By classifying key attributes of past and current 
products or services, and then modeling the 
relationship between those attributes and the 
commercial success of the offerings, they build 
predictive models for new products and services. 
In addition, P&G uses data and analytics from 
focus groups, social media, test markets, and 
early store rollouts to plan, produce, and launch 
new products. 
PREDICTIVE MAINTENANCE 
Factors that can predict mechanical failures may 
be deeply buried in structured data, such as the 
equipment year, make, and model, as well as 
in unstructured data that covers millions of log 
entries, senor data, error messages, and engine 
temperature., By analyzing these indications of 
potential issues before the problems happen, 
organizations can deploy maintenance more cost 
effectively and maximize parts and 
equipment uptime. 
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE 
The race for customers is on. A clearer view of 
customer experience is more possible now than 
ever before. Big data enables you to gather data 
from social media, web visits, call logs, and 
other data sources to improve the interaction 
experience and maximize the value delivered. 
Start delivering personalized offers, reduce 
customer churn, and handle issues proactively. 
 FRAUD AND COMPLIANCE 
When it comes to security, it’s not just a few 
rogue hackers; you’re up against entire expert 
teams. Security landscapes and compliance 
requirements are constantly evolving. Big 
data helps you identify patterns in data that 
indicate fraud and aggregate large volumes of 
information to make regulatory reporting 
much faster. 
MACHINE LEARNING 
Machine learning is the hottest of hot topics right 
now. And data—specifcally big data—is one of 
the reasons why. It’s only recently that we’ve 
been able to teach machines instead of program 
them. And the availability of big data to train 
machine-learning models makes that happen. 
11 

          
          
 
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY 
Operational effciency may not always make the 
news, but it’s an area in which big data is having 
the most impact. With big data, you can analyze 
and assess production, customer feedback and 
returns, and other factors to reduce outages and 
anticipate future demands. Big data can also be 
used to improve decision-making in line with 
current market demand. 
DRIVE INNOVATION 
Big data can help you innovate by studying 
interdependencies between humans, institutions, 
entities, and process and then determining new 
ways to use those insights. Use data insights to 
improve decisions about fnancial and planning 
considerations. Examine trends and what 
customers want to deliver new products and 
services. Implement dynamic pricing. There are 
endless possibilities. 
BIG DATA CHALLENGES 
While big data holds a lot of promise, it is not 
without its challenges.  
First, big data is... big. Although new 
technologies have been developed to store data, 
data volumes are doubling in size around every 
two years. Organizations still struggle to keep 
pace with their data and fnd ways to effectively 
store it. 
But it’s not enough to just store the data. Data 
must be used to be valuable, and that depends 
on curation. Clean data, or data that’s relevant 
to the client and organized in a way that enables 
meaningful analysis requires a lot of work. 
Data scientists spend 50 to 80 percent of their 
time curating and preparing data before it can 
actually be used. 
Finally, big data technology is changing at a fast 
pace. A few years ago, Apache Hadoop was the 
popular technology used to handle big data. That 
is, until Apache Spark was introduced in 2014. 
Today, a combination of the two frameworks 
appears to be the best approach. Keeping up with 
big data technology is an ongoing challenge. 
12 

 
How Big 
Data Works 
13 

Oracle Cloud for  Big  Data  Analytics 
Public 
Streaming 
Enterprise 
Data 
Providers 
Data Services 
Business Analytics 
Enterprise Apps 
Data 
Consumers 
  
         
         
          
 
 
 
 
 
Integrate 
Analyze 
Manage 
Adaptive 
Intelligence 
Big data gives you new insights that open up 
new opportunities and business models. Getting 
started involves three key actions:   
INTEGRATE 
Big data brings together data from many 
disparate sources and applications. Traditional 
data integration mechanisms, such as ETL 
(extract, transform, and load) generally aren’t 
up to the task. It requires new strategies and 
technologies to analyze big data sets at terabyte, 
or even petabyte, scale. At the same time, big 
data has the same requirements for quality, 
governance, and confdence as traditional data 
sources. During integration, you need to bring in 
the data, process it, and make sure it’s formatted 
and available in a form that your business 
analysts can get started with. 
MANAGE 
Big data requires storage. Your storage solution 
can be in the cloud, on-premises, or both. 
You can store your data in any form you want 
and bring your desired processing requirements 
and necessary process engines to those data sets 
on an on-demand basis. Many people choose 
their storage solution according to where their 
data is currently residing. The cloud is gradually 
gaining popularity because it supports your 
current compute requirements and enables you 
to spin up resources as needed. 
ANALYZE 
Your investment in big data pays off when you 
analyze and act on your data. Get new clarity with 
a visual analysis of your varied data sets. Explore 
the data further to make new discoveries. Share 
your fndings with others. Build data models with 
machine learning and artifcial intelligence. Put 
your data to work. 
To help you on your big data journey, we’ve put 
together some key best practices for you to keep 
in mind. Here are our guidelines for building a 
successful big data foundation. 
14 

 
Big Data 
Best Practices 
15 

 
 
 
 
 
#1: ALIGN BIG DATA WITH 
SPECIFIC BUSINESS GOALS 
More extensive data sets enable you to make 
new discoveries. To that end, it is important to 
base new investments in skills, organization, 
or infrastructure with a strong business-
driven context to guarantee ongoing project 
investments and funding. To determine if 
you are on the right track, ask how big data 
supports and enables your top business and IT 
priorities. Examples include understanding how 
to flter web logs to understand ecommerce 
behavior, deriving sentiment from social 
media and customer support interactions, and 
understanding statistical correlation methods 
and their relevance for customer, product, 
manufacturing, and engineering data. 
#2: EASE SKILLS SHORTAGE 
WITH STANDARDS AND 
GOVERNANCE 
One of the biggest obstacles to big data is a skills 
shortage. You can mitigate this risk by ensuring 
that big data technologies, considerations, 
and decisions are added to your IT 
governance program. 
Standardizing your approach will allow you 
to manage costs and leverage resources. 
Organizations implementing big data 
solutions and strategies should assess their 
skill requirements early and often and should 
proactively identify any potential skill gaps. These 
can be addressed by training/cross-training 
existing resources, hiring new resources, and 
leveraging consulting frms. 
#3: OPTIMIZE KNOWLEDGE 
TRANSFER WITH A CENTER 
OF EXCELLENCE 
Use a Center of Excellence approach to share 
knowledge, control oversight, and manage 
project communications. Whether big data is a 
new or an expanding investment, the soft and 
hard costs can be shared across the enterprise. 
Leveraging this approach can help increase 
big data capabilities and overall information 
architecture maturity in a more structured and 
systematic way. 
#4:TOP PAYOFF IS ALIGNING 
UNSTRUCTURED WITH 
STRUCTURED DATA 
It is certainly valuable to analyze big data on its 
own.But you can bring even greater business 
insights by connecting and integrating low 
density big data with the structured data you are 
already using today. 
16 

 
 
Whether you are capturing customer, product, 
equipment, or environmental big data, the goal 
is to add more relevant data points to your 
core master and analytical summaries, leading 
to better conclusions. For example, there is 
a difference in distinguishing all customer 
sentiment from that of only your best customers. 
Which is why many see big data as an integral 
extension of their existing business intelligence 
capabilities, data warehousing platform, and 
information architecture. 
Keep in mind that the big data analytical 
processes and models can be both human- and 
machine-based. Big data analytical capabilities 
include statistics, spatial analysis, semantics, 
interactive discovery, and visualization. Using 
analytical models, you can correlate different 
types and sources of data to make associations 
and meaningful discoveries. 
#5: PLAN YOUR DISCOVERY LAB 
FOR PERFORMANCE 
Discovering meaning in your data is not always 
straightforward. Sometimes we don’t even 
know what we’re looking for. That’s expected. 
Management and IT needs to support this “lack 
of direction” or “lack of clear requirement.” 
At the same time, it’s important for analysts and 
data scientists to work closely with the business 
to understand key business knowledge gaps and 
requirements. To accommodate the interactive 
exploration of data and the experimentation of 
statistical algorithms, you need high-performance 
work areas. Be sure that sandbox environments 
have the power they need—and are 
properly governed. 
#6: ALIGN WITH THE CLOUD 
OPERATING MODEL 
Big data processes and users require access 
to broad array of resources for both iterative 
experimentation and running production 
jobs. A big data solution includes all data 
realms including transactions, master data, 
reference data, and summarized data. Analytical 
sandboxes should be created on demand. 
Resource management is critical to ensure 
control of the entire data fow including pre- 
and post-processing, integration, in-database 
summarization, and analytical modeling. A well-
planned private and public cloud provisioning 
and security strategy plays an integral role in 
supporting these changing requirements. 
17 

 
Put Big Data 
To Work 
18 

Clearly, big data has tremendous potential. 
Putting a big data initiative to work at your 
organization can help you better understand your 
customers, make more accurate decisions, and 
create new growth opportunities. Contact us to 
learn more. 
See how Oracle can help your big data journey. 
Start your free trial today. 
Contact us URL: 
https://www.oracle.com/marketingcloud/contact­
sales.html 
Free Trial URL: 
https://go.oracle.com/LP=50758/? 
19 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oracle Corporation 
Copyright © 2019, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is provided for information purposes only, and the contents hereof are subject 
to change without notice. This document is not warranted to be error-free, nor subject to any other warranties or conditions, whether expressed orally or 
WORLDWIDE HEADQUARTERS 
implied in law, including implied warranties and conditions of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. We specifically disclaim any liability with 
500 Oracle Parkway 
Redwood Shores 
respect to this document, and no contractual obligations are formed either directly or indirectly by this document. This document may not be reproduced or 
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, for any purpose, without our prior written permission. 
CA 94065 
Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners. 
USA 
Intel and Intel Xeon are trademarks or registered trademarks of Intel Corporation. All SPARC trademarks are used under license and are trademarks or 
registered trademarks of SPARC International, Inc. AMD, Opteron, the AMD logo, and the AMD Opteron logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of 
WORLDWIDE INQUIRIES 
Advanced Micro Devices. UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group. 
Phone: +1.650.506.7000 
+1.800.ORACLE1 
Fax: 
+1.650.506.7200 
oracle.com 
CONNECT WITH US 

